Claims (5)
Hide Dependent 
What is claimed is: .[.
1. A vibrator device, especially for vibrating screen elements, and comprising: a housing, first and second pairs of parallel shafts rotatable in said housing, and means for driving said shafts, the shafts of each pair rotating in opposite directions and the shafts of one pair of rotating at one-half the speed of the other pair, off-center weights detachably mounted on each shaft and so oriented on the respective shafts that rotation of said shafts will exert reciprocating forces on said housing in a direction parallel to a plane normal to a plane including the axes of said first pair of shafts, said weights being radially positioned in rotational alignment such that the rotation thereof define cylinders that are radially juxtaposed, the weights on said first pair of shafts, respectively, being of equal weight and the weights on said second pair of shafts, respectively, being of equal weight..]. .[.2. A vibrator device according to claim 1 in which said off-center weights each comprise superposed strips of material extending longitudinally along the respective shaft, and threaded fasteners extending through said strips and threaded into the respective shaft to hold the strips in place on the shaft..]. .[.3. A vibrator device according to claim 1 in which each shaft has a longitudinal flat formed thereon, said weights each comprising a stack of strips of material mounted on the flat of the respective shaft, and screws extending through each stack of strips and into the respective
shaft to hold the strips in place on the shaft..]. 4. A vibrator device according to claim .[.1.]. .Iadd.15 .Iaddend.in which said .[.housing includes shock-mounting means for inhibiting.]. .Iadd.shock mounts inhibit .Iaddend.vibration of said housing in directions .[.at an angle.]. .Iadd.transversely .Iaddend.to said .[∥]. .Iadd.normal .Iaddend.direction. .[.5. A vibrator device according to claim 1 in which the shafts of one of said pairs have meshing first gears connected thereto while the shafts of the other pair have second gears connected thereto and meshing with respective ones of said first gears, said weights being located to one side of said gears..]. .[.6. A vibrator device according to claim 1 in which one of the shafts of said other pair extends outwardly from said housing and is adapted for connection to a drive motor..]. .[.7. A vibrator device according to claim 1 in which said housing includes means fixed thereto and extending therefrom in said parallel direction for connection to a screen element..]. .[.8. A vibrator device according to claim 1 in which the weights connected to the shafts of said one pair are of greater mass than the weights connected to the shafts of said other pair..]. .[.9. A vibrator device according to claim 8 in which the shafts of each said pair are disposed in respective first planes perpendicular to said parallel direction while one shaft of each pair is disposed in a respective second plane parallel to said one direction..]. .[.10. A vibrator device according to claim 9 in which said shaft-driving means includes gearing drivingly interconnecting said shafts, the weights on said shafts being oriented thereon to produce an additive effect in said one direction in one rotated position of said one pair and a subtractive effect in said one direction in a position of said one pair which is 180° away from said one rotated position..]. .[.11. A vibrator device according to claim 10 in which the opposite ends of said shafts are rotatably supported by bearings carried by wall portions of said housing, said gearing including a gear on one end of each shaft, the two gears on one each of said first and second shaft pairs being meshed as are the two gears on the other of said shaft pairs, each said weight including a plurality of congruent elongated metal plates in stacked relation superposed on the respective shaft in parallelism therewith, each stack being secured to the respective shaft by means of threaded fasteners, the stacks on said first pair of shafts being of substantially equal weight as are the stacks on said second pair of shafts, said stacks extending between the respective gears and the other ends of said shafts and further being in rotational alignment..]. .[.12. The vibrator device according to claim 11 in which said housing is sealed, said housing having opposite sides parallel to said second plane, and shock mounts carried by said opposite housing sides, said shock mounts being flexible in a direction
parallel to said second plane..]. .[.13. The device of claim 1 in which each shaft has at least one axially extending flat side, said weights each comprising a stack of superposed elongated congruent flat strips of metal mounted on said flat side to extend axially of the respective shaft, said weights being of radial dimensions that define cylinders of rotation that are radially spaced, threaded fasteners passing through aligned companion apertures in said strips of each stack to secure rigidly said stacks to said shafts, respectively, gears secured to said shafts at one end of said weights, the gears on said first pair of shafts being meshed, the gears on said second pair of shafts being meshed with respective ones of the gears on said first pair of shafts, the radial thickness of the weights on said first pair of shafts being no greater than the radius of the first shaft gears, and the radial thickness of the weights on said second pair of
shafts being no greater than the radius of the second shaft gears..]. 14. The device of claim .[.13.]. .Iadd.15 .Iaddend.including .[.shock mounts secured to opposite sides of said housing for supporting said housing from a stationary frame,
said.]. shock mounts .[.being.]. of rubber-like material and having a width dimension greater than the thickness thereof, said mounts being abutted against said housing and held thereagainst by means of studs passed through the thickness thereof and threaded into said housing, and the width dimensions of said mounts extending generally .[∥]. .Iadd.normal .Iaddend.to said parallel direction whereby said housing may reciprocate in said .[∥]. .Iadd.normal .Iaddend.direction by reason of said mounts flexing in shear but is held against vibration in a direction parallel to said studs due to the compressive resistance of said
mounts. .Iadd.15. A vibrator device, especially for vibrating screen elements, and comprising: a housing, a first pair of parallel shafts in said housing rotatable at a predetermined speed, a second pair of parallel shafts in said housing rotatable at twice said predetermined speed, said first and second pairs of shafts having axes that define spaced parallel planes, means for driving said shafts with the shafts of each pair rotating in opposite directions, said shaft-driving means including gearing drivingly interconnecting said shafts, said gearing including a gear on one end of each shaft, the gears on said first pair of shafts being meshed, the gears on said second pair of shafts being meshed with respective ones of the gears on said first pair of shafts, off-center weights detachably directly mounted on the shafts in engagement therewith and so oriented that rotation of said shafts exert reciprocating forces on said housing in a direction normal to said parallel planes and which pass midway between the axes of the first pair and the axes of the second pair of shafts, said weights being axially positioned on the shafts so that in rotation the centers of gravity lie in a common plane normal to the axes of the shafts, said weights being radially positioned in rotational alignment such that the rotation thereof define cylinders that are radially juxtaposed, the weights on said first pair of shafts being equal and the weights on said second pair of shafts also being equal but of lesser weight, the weights on said shafts being further oriented thereon to produce an additive effect in said normal direction in one rotated position thereof and a subtractive effect in said normal direction in a position of the weights on one of said pair of shafts which is 180° away from said one rotated position, each of said shafts having a flat side parallel to the axis thereof, each said weight including a flat elongated metal plate contiguously superposed on the flat side of the respective shaft in parallelism therewith, each plate being removably secured to the respective shaft by means of threaded fasteners, said housing being sealed and having opposite sides parallel to said normal plane, and shock mounts carried by said opposite housing sides, said shock mounts being flexible in a direction parallel to said normal plane. .Iaddend. .Iadd.16. A vibrator device according to claim 15 wherein each weight includes a plurality of congruent radially stacked elongated flat metal plates. .Iaddend.
