Claims (69)
Hide Dependent 
I claim:
1. A transmission device comprising a frame, drive input means, drive output means, and means interconnecting said input and output means including a first element having a first axis fixed relative to the frame, and a second element rotatable about a second axis intersecting said first axis at a point thereon, said second element being driven conically about said point on the first axis and circumferentially of said first axis, said first element having a pair of rolling surfaces disposed about said first axis one each side of the plane passing through the point of intersection of said axes and perpendicular to said first axis, said second element having a pair of rolling surfaces disposed about said second axis, one each side of the plane passing through the point of intersection of said axes and perpendicular to said second axis, rolling surfaces of one of said elements being the surfaces of cones having an apex half-angle substantially equal to the angle of intersection of said first and second axes, a gyroscopic action of said second element producing a couple .[.bringing.]. .Iadd.holding the .Iaddend.respective rolling surfaces on said first and second elements .[.into.]. .Iadd.in .Iaddend.rolling engagement at two points located one each side of the plane passing through the point of intersection of said axes and perpendicular to said first axis.
2. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second element has a degree of freedom in a direction parallel to the plane containing said first and second axes, which allows the rolling surfaces of said second element to come freely to lie against those of the first element under the gyroscopic action of said second element.
3. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the two rolling surfaces of the first element are symmetrically arranged relative to the plane passing through the point of intersection of said first and second axes and perpendicular to the first axis, and the two rolling surfaces of the second element are symmetrically arranged relative to the plane passing through the point of intersection of said first and second axes and perpendicular to the second axis.
4. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the center of gravity of the second element is located at the point of intersection of the first and second axes.
5. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second element is a substantially solid body of revolution.
6. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the two rolling surfaces of the first element have a concave section in a transverse plane and have a convex toric section in a meridianal plane, and the two rolling surfaces of the second element are conical and convex in a transverse plane.
7. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 including means for moving the rolling surfaces of at least one of the first and second elements relative to each other so as to vary the transmission ratio.
8. A transmission device as claimed in claim 7 wherein the axially movable rolling surfaces are those of the first element.
9. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 including a drive transmission shaft, provided with a single truncated cylindrical part having as its axis said first axis and having at each end a respective support plate, the second element being provided with a pair of coaxial half shafts fixed relative thereto, bearings on the respective support plates rotatably supporting the half shafts, and the axis of the half shafts being said second axis.
10. A transmission device as claimed in claim 9 including sleeves which are prismatic in their external shape and which contain said bearings in which the two half shafts are supported, said sleeves being mounted in said support plates with play in a plane containing the first and second axes and with substantially no play in the direction perpendicular to this plane, whereby the second element is mounted on the support plates with a sufficient degree of freedom for it to be able to pivot about an axis perpendicular to the plane containing the first and second axes to bring the rolling surfaces of said first and second elements into engagement.
11. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 including a drive transmission shaft, provided with a first support plate having as its axis said first axis, a support shaft having as its axis said second axis, said support plate being immovably secured to one end of said support shaft having as its axis said second axis, a second support plate freely pivotable about said first axis independently of said first support plate, the other end of the support shaft being immovably secured to said second support plate, and said second element being freely rotatable about said support shaft.
12. A transmission device as claimed in claim 11 including a cage prismatic in external form, bearings mounted in said cage, said support shaft passing through said bearings mounted in said cage, said prismatic cage being mounted in said second element with play in the plane containing said first and second axes, and no substantial play in the direction perpendicular to this plane, whereby the second element is mounted on the support shaft with a sufficient degree of freedom for it to pivot about an axis perpendicular to the plane containing the first and second axes.
13. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 including a drive transmission shaft, a gear-train linking said second element to said drive transmission shaft, said linking gear train comprising three conical convex gears having a common apex at the point of intersection of said first and second axes, a first of the gears having as its axis said second axis and being mounted for rotation with the second element about the second axis, a second of the gears meshing with the first, a shaft carrying said second gear and having an axis passing through the point of intersection of said first and second axes, a satellite support plate rotatable about said first axis and rotatably mounting the second gear on the axis of said last-mentioned shaft, and the third of the gears meshing with the second gear and having as its axis said first axis, and said third gear being carried by said drive transmission shaft.
14. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 including a first drive transmission shaft provided with a single truncated cylindrical part having as its axis the said first axis and having at each end a respective support plate, the second element being provided with a pair of coaxial half shafts fixed relative thereto and rotatably supported in bearings on the respective support plates, the axis of the half .[.sheets.]. .Iadd.shafts .Iaddend.being the said second axis, and a second drive transmission shaft rotationally linked to the second element by means of a .[.fear.]. .Iadd.gear .Iaddend.train comprising three conical convex gears having a common apex being the point of intersection of said first and second axes, a first of the gears having as its axis said second axis and being mounted for rotation with the second element about the second axis, a second of the gears meshing with the first, and being carried rotatably by a shaft the axis of which passes through the point of intersection of said first and second axes, said shaft being mounted in a satellite support plate which satellite support plate is rotatable about said first axis, and the third of the gears meshing with the second gear and having as its axis said first axis, said third gear being carried by said second drive shaft and said satellite support plate being immovably secured to said first drive transmission shaft.
15. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second element is rotationally linked to a drive transmission shaft by means of a gear-train, said linking gear train comprising two conical convex gears having a common apex being the point of intersection of said first and second axes, a first of these gears having as its axis said second axis and being mounted for rotation with the second element about said second axis, the second of the gears meshing with the first and having as its axis said first axis, said second gear being borne by said drive transmission shaft.
16. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second element is rotationally linked to a drive transmission shaft by nmeans of a gear-train, said linking gear train comprising two conical gears having a common apex being the point of intersection of said first and second axes, a first of the gears being convex and having as its axis said second axis, said first gear being mounted for rotation with the second element about said second axis, the second of the gears meshing with the first and being concave, said second gear having as its axis said first axis and being mounted for rotation with said drive transmission shaft.
17. A transmission device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the first element comprises two parts axially movable relative to each other and on which the two reaction surfaces of the first element are formed, the two parts of the first element being mounted in slidable fashion in a support casing having as its axis said first axis, said support casing being rotationally linked to a drive transmission shaft.
18. A transmission device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the member for varying the relative axial position of the two reaction surfaces of the first element comprises a rod the axis of which is parallel to said first axis, said rod being threaded, having two identical portions of opposite thread and being rotatable about its axis by a control member.
19. A transmission device as claimed in claim 17 wherein the member for varying the relative axial position of the two reaction surfaces of the first element comprises a rod the axis of which is parallel to said first axis, said rod being threaded, having two identical portions of opposite thread and being rotatable about its axis by a control member.
20. A transmission comprising a frame, drive input means, drive output means, and means interconnecting said input and output, said interconnecting means comprising a plurality of transmission devices each including a first element having a first axis fixed relative to the frame, and a second element rotatable about a second axis intersecting said first axis at a point thereon, said second element being driven conically about said point on the first axis and circumferentially of said first axis, said first element having a pair of rolling surfaces disposed about said first axis one .Iadd.on .Iaddend.each side of the plane passing through the point of intersection of said axes and perpendicular to said first axis, said second element having a pair of rolling surfaces disposed about said second axis, one .Iadd.on .Iaddend.each side of the plane passing through the point of intersection of said axes and perpendicular to said second axis, the rolling surfaces of one of said elements being the surfaces of cones having an apex half-angle substantially equal to the angle of intersection of said first and second axes, a gyroscopic action of said second element producing a couple bringing respective rolling surfaces on said first and second elements into rolling engagement at two points located one .Iadd.on .Iaddend.each side of the plane passing through the point of intersection of said axes and perpendicular to said first axis, and the transmission devices being coupled so that the resultant of the gyroscopic couples to which the second elements of the transmission devices are subjected is substantially zero.
21. A transmission as claimed in claim 20 including three transmission devices mounted in a star shape at intervals of 120° about a general axis of the transmission, the two rolling surfaces of the first elements being common, and locked against rotation on the frame about the said general axis.
22. A transmission device as claimed in claim 1 wherein means are provided respectively rotationally linking drive transmission shafts to the angular velocity of the first element about said first axis, the angular velocity of said second element about said second axis, and the angular velocity of nutation of said second axis about said first axis, and rotational coupling means being provided between at least two of the shafts.
23. A transmission device comprising: a frame, drive input means, drive output means, and means interconnecting said input and output means including a first element having a first axis fixed relative to the frame, .[.and.]. a second element having a second axis intersecting said first axis at a point thereon, .Iadd.and support means to engage said second element on said second axis at opposite sides of said point, said support means being rotatable on said first axis under a torque couple driving .Iaddend.said second element .[.being driven.]. conically about said point on said first axis and circumferentially of said first axis, said first element having a pair of rolling surfaces disposed about said first axis, one on each side of a first plane passing through said point of axes intersection and perpendicular to said first axis, said second element having a pair of rolling surfaces disposed about said second axis, one on each side of a second plane passing through said point of axes intersection and perpendicular to said second axis, the respective rolling surfaces on said first and second elements being in rolling frictional engagement at two points in a third plane containing said first and second axes and located one on each side of said first plane, and the rolling surfaces of one of said elements being the surfaces of cones having an apex half-angle related to the angle of intersection between said first and second axes in a manner to enable the spacing between said respective two points of rolling frictional engagement and said point of axis intersection to be adjusted along the length of said rolling surfaces for any given angle of said first and second axes intersection, and means for forcing said respective rolling surfaces of said first and second elements into rolling friction engagement with each other at said two points.
24. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein said means for forcing said rolling surfaces into rolling friction engagement includes means to develop a gyroscopic couple tending to tilt said second element about said point of axes intersection.
25. The apparatus recited in claim 24 wherein said means to develop a gyroscopic couple causes said .Iadd.gyroscopic .Iaddend.couple to act in a direction forcing said respective rolling surfaces into engagement with each other at said two points.
26. The apparatus recited in claim 25 .[.including.]. .Iadd.wherein said support .Iaddend.means .[.to support at least one of.]. .Iadd.supports .Iaddend.said .[.first and.]. second .[.elements.]. .Iadd.element .Iaddend.with limited pivotal freedom in said third plane so that said rolling frictional engagement is maintained only by said gyroscopic couple.
27. The apparatus recited in claim 24 wherein said means for forcing said respective rolling surfaces into engagement with each other at said two points develops a second force couple between said first and second elements, said means to develop said gyroscopic couple causing said gyroscopic couple to act in a direction to counteract said second force couple.
28. The apparatus recited in claim 23 including means to shift said two points of rolling friction engagement axially toward and away from said point of axes intersection thereby to vary the speed ratio of said drive input means and said drive output means in accordance with the radius of said cones at said two points of rolling friction engagement.
29. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein said cones have an apex half-angle equal to said angle of intersection.
30. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein said cones have an apex half-angle less than said angle of axes intersection.
31. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein the generatrix of each of said cones is a curve.
32. The apparatus recited in claim 31 in which the generatrix of each of said cones is curved in a meridianal plane to provide a concave surface conformation.
33. The apparatus recited in claim 31 in which the generatrix of each of said cones is curved in a meridianal plane to provide a convex surface conformation.
34. The apparatus recited in claim 23 in which the generatrix of the rolling surfaces of each of said first and second elements is a curve having a radius between about 10 and 100 times the average distance of each said surface from the axis of revolution thereof.
35. The apparatus recited in claim 23 in which said rolling surfaces of both said first and second elements are surfaces developed by revolution of curved generatrices about said first and second axes respectively, the surface generatrix of one of said elements having a curve radius different from the curve radius of the surface generatrix of the other of said elements, thereby to ensure contact of said rolling surfaces at said two points.
36. The apparatus recited in claim 35 wherein the surface of revolution on one of said elements is convex and the surface of revolution on the other is concave in a meridianal plane.
37. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein said drive input means comprises reciprocable drive means disposed symmetrically about said first axis for reciprocation on axes parallel to said first axis and spaced equally therefrom, and including means connecting said reciprocable drive means and said second element to drive said second element conically about said first axis.
38. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein said second element is a solid of revolution having a center of mass coincident with said point of axes intersection, and means rotatable on said first axis and rotatably linked with opposite ends of said second element.
39. The apparatus recited in claim 38 wherein said last mentioned means is a support for said second element fixing the position of said second axis relative to said first axis.
40. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein the rolling surfaces of said first element are symmetrically arranged with respect to said first plane and wherein the rolling surfaces of said second element are symmetrically arranged with respect to said second plane.
41. In a transmission device having a frame, drive input means, and drive output means, means interconnecting said input and output means comprising:
a first element on a first axis fixed in the frame and having rolling surfaces of revolution about said first axis, one such rolling surface on each side of a first plane perpendicular to said first axis at a point of axes intersection;
a second element on a second axis intersecting said first axis at said point of axes intersection and having concentric journal and rolling surfaces of revolution about said second axis, the rolling surfaces of said second element being disposed one on each side of a second plane passing through said point of axes intersection and perpendicular to said second axis .Iadd.said journal surfaces also being disposed one on each side of said second plane; .Iaddend.
support means rotatable on said first axis and journalled with said journal surfaces to support said second element .Iadd.in a manner to positively establish the angle of intersection between said first and second axes and .Iaddend.for movement .Iadd.of said second element and said second axis .Iaddend.in a biconical path circumferentially of said first axis, .[.the apex of.]. said biconical path .[.being.]. .Iadd.having a central apex .Iaddend.coincident with said point of axes intersection .Iadd.and diverging oppositely from said central apex at a rate of divergence established by the support of said second element from said support means; .Iaddend.
the respective rolling surfaces on said first and second elements being symmetrical with respect to said point of axes intersection and being in rolling frictional engagement at two points of contact in a third plane containing said first and second axes and located one on each side of said first plane;
the rolling surfaces of at least one of said elements being defined by generatrices inclined oppositely with respect to the axis of revolution thereof, thereby to provide in the respective rolling surfaces of said first and second elements a variable ratio of rolling surface radii at said points of contact for variation in the spacing of said points of contact from said first plane; and
means for forcing said respective rolling surfaces on said first and second elements into rolling friction engagement with each other at said two points.
42. The apparatus recited in claim 41 wherein .[.said point .]. .Iadd.the angle .Iaddend.of first and second axes intersection is fixed with respect to said frame.
43. The apparatus recited in claim 41 wherein said means for forcing said respective rolling surfaces into engagement at said two points includes thrust means to cause relative movement of said rolling surfaces of one of said elements and said rolling surfaces of the other of said elements on the respective axes of said elements thereby to develop a force vector normal to said surfaces.
44. The apparatus recited in claim 41 wherein said rolling surfaces of said second element are defined by two annular rings concentric with said second axis, said annular rings being coupled for angular movement with said second element but movable axially with respect to each other on said second element in the longitudinal direction of said second axis.
45. The apparatus recited in claim 44 including cone members to define said rolling surfaces of said first element as conical surfaces of revolution, said cone members being carried by said first element and movable toward and away from said first plane.
46. The apparatus recited in claim 45 wherein said annular rings are movable away from said second plane by inertial forces and movable toward said second plane by axial extension of said cone members.
47. The apparatus recited in claim 46 in which the apical half-angle of said respective conical surfaces of revolution is less than the angle of intersection of said first and second axes.
48. The apparatus recited in claim 45 wherein the apical half-angle of each of said conical surfaces is less than the angle of said first and second axes intersection and including a spring system biasing said annular rings in a direction away from said second plane.
49. The apparatus recited in claim 45 including a pressurized fluid system for moving said cone members axially away from said first plane.
50. The apparatus recited in claim 45 wherein said drive output means is a shaft rotatable on said first axis with said first element and including oppositely inclined helicoidal ramps for moving said cone members toward and away from said first plane.
51. The apparatus recited in claim 44 comprising gear linkage means to provide axial movement of said annular rings toward and away from said second plane to vary the speed ratio of said input drive means and said output drive means.
52. The apparatus recited in claim 44 comprising sleeve means annularly adjustable with respect to said second element, said sleeve means being formed with ramps engagable by said annular rings thereby to move said annular rings axially toward and away from said second plane upon relative rotation of said sleeve means and said second element.
53. The apparatus recited in claim 41 including means rotatably linking said second element to said frame.
54. The apparatus recited in claim 41, wherein said drive output means comprises an output shaft connected for rotation with said first element.
55. The apparatus recited in claim 41 including means rotatably linking said first element to said frame and including a rotatable crankcase on said first axis around said support and said elements, and means rotatably linking said second element with said crankcase.
56. The apparatus recited in claim 53 wherein said rotatable linking means comprises a radial diaphragm interconnecting said second element and said frame in a manner to prevent relative circumferential movement between said second element and said frame but to allow relative movement between said second element and said frame in a radial direction at least at said two points of rolling friction.
57. The apparatus recited in claim 53 wherein said rotatable linking means comprises a conical gear fixed to said frame on said first axis and converging at said point of first and second axes intersection, and another conical gear fixed to said second element on said second axis and also converging on said point of axes intersection.
58. The apparatus recited in claim 55 wherein said drive input means is coupled for rotation with said crankcase and said drive output means coupled for rotation with said support means.
59. The apparatus recited in claim 57 wherein the ratio of said conical .[.gearsis.]. .Iadd.gears is .Iaddend.1:1.
60. The apparatus recited in claim 54 wherein said drive input means comprises an input shaft connected for rotation with said support means.
61. The apparatus recited in claim 54 wherein said drive input means comprises reciprocable drive means disposed symmetrically about said first axis for reciprocation on axes parallel to said first axis and spaced equally therefrom, and including means for connecting said reciprocable drive means and said second element to drive said second element conically about said first axis.
62. The apparatus recited in claim 23 wherein the center of gravity of said second element is located at said point of first and second axes intersection.
63. The apparatus recited in claim 41 wherein said means to support said second element is journalled in the frame for rotation on said first axis and journalled with said second element for relative rotation of said second element and said support means about said second axis.
64. The apparatus recited in claim 63 wherein said means to support said second element is a torque transmitting member having opposite ends journalled in the frame on said first axis and a tube-like section extending between said opposite ends.
65. The apparatus recited in claim 64 wherein said tube-like section is concentric with said second axis and journalled directly with said second element on opposite sides of said second plane.
66. The apparatus recited in claim 65 wherein said second element includes exterior journal surfaces concentric with said second axis and wherein the interior of said tube-like section is journalled with said exterior journal surfaces.
67. The apparatus recited in claim 65 wherein said tube-like section extends radially between said first and second elements and is formed having diammetrically opposite, axially spaced openings to enable said rolling surfaces to engage at said two points of contact.
68. The apparatus recited in claim 67 wherein said second element includes interior journal surfaces concentric with said second axis and wherein said means to support said second element extends within and is journalled with said interior journal surfaces.
69. In a transmission device having a frame, drive input means and drive output means, means interconnecting said input and output means comprising:
a first element on a first axis fixed in the frame and having rolling surfaces of revolution about said first axis, one such rolling surface on each side of a first plane perpendicular to said first axis at a point of axes intersection;
a second element having rolling surfaces of revolution about a second axis intersecting said first axis at said point of axes intersection and at an angle of axes intersection, the rolling surfaces of said second element being disposed one one each side of a second plane passing through said point of axes intersection and perpendicular to said second axis;
means to support said second element .Iadd.symmetrically on opposite sides of said point of axes intersection .Iaddend.from the frame to .[.establish.]. .Iadd.fix .Iaddend.said angle of intersection and so that the rolling surfaces on said elements may be in rolling friction engagement at two points of contact in a third plane containing said first and second axes, said points of contact being located symmetrically with respect to said point of axes intersection;
the rolling surfaces of both said elements being symmetrical with respect to said point of axes intersection and the rolling surfaces of at least one of said elements being defined by generatrices inclined oppositely with respect to the axis of revolution thereof, the rate of inclination of said generatrices being related to said angle of intersection so as to effect a ratio of rolling surface radii at said points of contact dependent on the spacing of said points of contact from said point of axes intersection;
means for forcing said respective rolling surfaces on said first and second elements into rolling frictional engagement with each other at said two points; and
means to adjust simultaneously the spacing of said points of contact from said point of axes intersection thereby to vary the speed ratio of the drive input and drive output means.