Claims (6)
Hide Dependent 
I claim:
1. A throttle control device, for a throttle apparatus including a handlebar and throttle operating means mounted on said handlebar, said throttle operating means including a sleeve rotatably mounted on said handlebar, said sleeve being adapted for receiving a handgrip thereover, and a housing fixed to said handlebar adjacent to said sleeve, said control device comprising clamping means for selectively holding said throttle operating means in a predetermined position, characterized in that said clamping means includes a disk defining an aperture for receiving said sleeve, said disk being positionable between said handgrip and said housing with said handgrip substantially contiguous to said disk, anchoring means for preventing rotation of said disk with respect to said housing including a tab fixed to said disk and engageable with said housing, said disk including a plurality of sections, means for urging said plurality of sections away from one another to enlarge said aperture and allow free rotation of said sleeve with respect to said disk, and constricting means for urging said plurality of sections towards one another to constrict said aperture and restrict rotation of said sleeve.
2. A throttle control device as claimed in claim 1, and wherein said housing includes at least one fitting extending therefrom, characterized in that said tab is engageable with said at least one fitting for preventing rotation of said disk.
3. A throttle control device as claimed in claim 2, said tab being bifurcated, said at least one fitting being receivable between the bifurcations.
4. A throttle control device as claimed in claim 2, said constricting means including a pair of ears, each ear of said pair of ears being fixed to one section of said plurality of sections, and cam means for selectively urging said pair of ears towards each other.
5. A throttle control device as claimed in claim 4, and further including a spring between said ears for urging said ears away from each other, a stud extending through said ears, said cam means being carried on one end of said stud, and a lever for operating said cam.
6. A throttle control device as claimed in claim 5, said at least one fitting comprising a pair of fittings spaced apart, said tab being receivable between said pair of fittings. .Iadd. 7. A throttle control device, for a throttle apparatus including a handlebar and throttle operating means mounted on said handlebar, said throttle operating means including a sleeve rotatably mounted on said handlebar, said sleeve being adapted for receiving a handgrip thereover, and a housing fixed to said handlebar adjacent to said sleeve, said control device comprising clamping means for selectively holding said throttle operating means in a predetermined position, characterized in that said clamping means includes a disk defining an aperture for receiving said sleeve, said disk being positionable between said handgrip and said housing with said handgrip substantially contiguous to said disk, anchoring means for preventing rotation of said disk with respect to said housing including a tab fixed to said disk and engageable with said housing, said disk including at least one open portion separating adjacent sections of the disk, the aperture being large enough to allow free rotation of said sleeve with respect to said disk with the sections separated a predetermined distance, the control device further comprising constricting means for urging the sections toward one another so as to constrict said aperture until the disk engages and restricts rotation of the sleeve. .Iaddend. .Iadd.8. A throttle control device according to claim 7 wherein the disk includes two open portions splitting the disk into two separated sections, the sections being attached together across one open portion, the the constricting means interconnecting the sections at the other open portion, the constricting means holding the sections away from each other so as to permit free rotation of the sleeve with respect to said disk but being constrictable to cause the sections to come toward each other to engage and restrict rotation of the sleeve. .Iaddend.
