Claims (31)
Hide Dependent 
We claim: .[.1. In a transmission, the combination comprising a housing, a shaft journaled in said housing, said shaft having first and second portions extending axially of said shaft, said first portion being cylindrical and diametrically enlarged transversely of the axis of said shaft relative to said second portion, said shaft having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially in said diametrically enlarged first portion and terminating interiorly of said housing, a plurality of change gears freely journaled on said first portion of said shaft within said housing and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive gears when axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, at least one end of said groove terminating in an axially open end adjacent said second portion to permit said key to be inserted lengthwise into said groove through said axially open end thereof, and shift means for axially shifting said key between said gear-engaging positions..]. .[.2. The combination of claim 1 wherein each gear comprises means forming an arcuate recess in the bore thereof defining said key-receiving means thereof and wherein said key comprises a lug normally projecting radially outwardly of said groove beyond the surface of said diametrically enlarged portion for successive interengagment with said arcuate recesses of successive gears when said key is axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions..]. .[.3. The combination of claim 2 wherein said arcuate recesses of said gears are axially separated to define free spaces between adjacent recesses and wherein the axial dimension of said lug is less then the axial dimension of said free spaces to thereby define a neutral position of said key between adjacent gear-engaging positions thereof whereby when said key is shifted to a neutral position, said shaft is drivingly disconnected from said gears..]. .[.4. The combination of claim 1 wherein said shift means comprises a collar journaled on said grooved shaft within said housing and axially slidable thereon, said collar embracing a portion of said key, said key and said collar having means operatively connecting said collar with said key to render said key axially slidable in unison with said collar, and actuating means operatively connected to said collar for axially shifting said collar on said grooved portion..]. .[.5. The combination of claim 4 wherein said means operatively connecting said key with said collar comprises a pair of axially spaced-apart annular surfaces on said collar and complementary projection means on said key projecting outwardly of said groove beyond the outer surface of said grooved shaft, said collar surfaces and said projection means being radially overlapped to restrain relative axial movement between said key and collar..]. .[.6. The combination of claim 5 wherein said means operatively connecting said actuating means with said collar comprises means forming a central circular groove in the outer surface of said collar and a rotary shift arm engaging said groove of said collar such that rotation of said shift arm by said actuating means shifts said collar axially on said grooved shaft..]. .[.7. The combination of claim 1 further including detent means operable with said shift means for correlating positions of said shift
means to said gear-engaging positions of said key..]. 8. .[.The combination of claim 7 wherein said shift means comprises a rotary shift shaft journaled in said housing and said.]. .Iadd.In a transmission including a housing having opposite end walls and side walls, a shaft having first and second portions extending axially of said shaft, said first portion being intermediate said second portions and being cylindrical and diametrically enlarged transversely of the axis of said shaft relative to said second portions, said second portions of said shaft being respectively journaled in said housing end walls, said shaft having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially in said diametrically enlarged first portion and terminating interiorly of said housing, a plurality of speed-changing gears freely journaled on said first portion of said shaft within said housing and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive gears when axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, at least one end of said groove terminating in an axially open end adjacent one said second portion to permit said key to be inserted lengthwise into said groove through said axially open end thereof, a rotary shift shaft journaled in said housing side walls and extending thereacross, means including a shift fork on said shift shaft and rotatable therewith, and a collar slideably mounted on said first shaft portion operatively connected to said key for axially shifting said key between said gear-engaging positions said shift fork engaging said collar for axially shifting the same: .Iaddend.detent means .[.comprises.]. .Iadd.in said housing comprising .Iaddend.a rotary .Iadd.plate .Iaddend.member on said shift shaft .Iadd.in said housing .Iaddend.having .[.a.]. .Iadd.an arcuate edge .Iaddend.portion radially spaced from said shift shaft for movement opposite a portion of said housing, a detent-seat-engaging member .Iadd.in said housing .Iaddend.between said .[.two.]. .Iadd.arcuate edge and housing portions .[.biased.]..Iadd., and spring means in said housing biasing said detent-seat-engaging member .Iaddend.radially .[.of.]..Iadd.toward .Iaddend.said shift shaft and a plurality of angularly spaced-apart first detent seats in .[.one of said portions.]. .Iadd.said edge portion of said plate member.Iaddend., said detent-seat-engaging member having selective engagements with said first detent seats in accordance with the rotary position of said shift shaft to thereby correlate the rotary positions of said shift shaft with the
gear-engaging positions of said key. .[.9. The combination of claim 8
wherein said detent means is within said housing..]. 10. The combination of claim 8 wherein .[.said rotary member comprises a plate having a generally arcuate edge portion radially spaced from said shift shaft, said plurality of first seats being formed in said edge of said plate,.]. said detent-seat-engaging member .[.comprising.]. .Iadd.comprises .Iaddend.a ball biased inwardly toward said shift shaft for engagement one at a time
with said first seats. 11. The combination of claim 10 wherein said detent means further comprises means forming a plurality of second detent seats in said plate each having a radial alignment with said shift shaft and those of said first detent seats correlated to neutral positions of said key, said second seats being arcuately arranged at a selected radial distance from said shift shaft, and a switch on said housing having a switch actuator biased toward said plate for selective engagement with said second seats in accordance with the angular position of said shift shaft, said switch being operable in response to engagement of said switch actuator with said second seats to thereby correlate switch operation to
the neutral positions of said key. 12. .[.The combination of claim 7 wherein.]. .Iadd.In a transmission including a housing having opposite end walls and side walls, a shaft having first and second portions extending axially of said shaft, said first portion being intermediate said second portions and being cylindrical and diametrically enlarged transversely of the axis of said shaft relative to said second portions, said second portions of said shaft being respectively journaled in said housing end walls, said shaft having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially in said diametrically enlarged first portion and terminating interiorly of said housing, a plurality of speed-changing gears freely journaled on said first portion of said shaft within said housing and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive gears when axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, at least one end of said groove terminating in an axially open end adjacent one said second portion to permit said key to be inserted lengthwise into said groove through said axially open end thereof, a rotary shift shaft journaled in said housing side walls and extending thereacross, means including a shift fork on said shift shaft and rotatable therewith, a collar slideably mounted on said first shaft portion for axially shifting said key between said gear-engaging positions, said shift fork engaging said collar for axially shifting the same: detent means in said housing operable with said axially shifting means for correlating positions of said shifting means to said gear-engaging positions of said key, said detent means .[.comprises.]. .Iadd.comprising .Iaddend.a plate .Iadd.on said shift shaft and rotatable therewith .Iaddend..[., means for supporting said plate on said housing for rotary movement about a fixed axis.]., said plate having .Iadd.an arcuate edge radially spaced from the axis of said shift shaft with a plurality of angularly spaced-apart detent seats therein, means including a spring in said housing for providing selective engagement with said detent seats in accordance with the rotary position of said plate, said plate having at least one opening therein spaced radially inwardly from said edge toward said axis .[.switch actuator displacement means movable therewith and disposed at a selected radial distance from said axis.]., and a switch on said housing having a switch actuator biased toward said plate for selective engagement with said .[.displacement means.]. .Iadd.opening .Iaddend.in accordance with the angular position of said plate, said switch being operable in response to engagement of said switch actuator with said .[.displacement means.]. .Iadd.opening .Iaddend.to thereby correlate switch operation to a neutral position of said key. .[.13. The combination of claim 12 wherein said detent means is within said housing..]. .[.14. The combination of claim 1 wherein said shift means comprises a collar journaled on said diametrically enlarged portion of said shaft and axially slidable thereon, means operatively connecting said collar with said key to render said key axially slidable in unison with said collar and means for axially shifting said collar on said shaft..]. .[.15. The combination of claim 14 wherein said means operatively connecting said collar with said key comprises a pair of axially spaced projections on said key projecting radially outwardly of said groove and extending beyond the outer surface of said diametrically enlarged portion of said shaft, said collar being axially trapped between said two projections..]. .[.16. The combination of claim 15 wherein said means for shifting said collar comprises a rotary member journaled in said housing, means forming a central circular groove in the outer surface of said collar and means on said member engaging said groove such that rotary movement of said member shifts said collar axially on said shaft..]. .[.17. The combination of claim 15 wherein said key further comprises a third projection normally projecting radially outwardly of said groove beyond the outer surface of said shaft and axially spaced from said pair of projections, said third projection having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive gears when said key is axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions by axially shifting said collar on said shaft..]. .[.18. The combination of claim 17 wherein said shift means comprises a collar journaled on said shaft and axially slidable thereon, said collar encircling said key and being spaced axially between said two projections, means operatively connecting said collar with said key to render said key axially slidable in unison with said collar and means for axially sliding said collar on said shaft..]. .[.19. The combination of claim 18 wherein said means operatively connecting said collar with said key comprises a third projection on said key projecting radially outwardly of said groove beyond the outer surface of said shaft, said collar being axially trapped between said third projection and one of said first-two-mentioned projections..]. .[.20. The combination of claim 19 wherein said means for axially shifting said collar comprises means forming a central circular groove in the outer surface of said collar and a rotary member journaled on said housing and engaging said groove such
that when said member rotates, said collar slides on said shaft..]. 21. In a transmission, the combination comprising a housing .Iadd.having opposite end walls and side walls.Iaddend., a shaft journaled in said housing .Iadd.end walls .Iaddend.and having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially thereof, said groove terminating within said housing, key means within said groove and axially slidable therein, a plurality of .[.change.]. .Iadd.speed-changing .Iaddend.gears .Iadd.and an additional gear .Iaddend.journaled on said shaft within said housing .[.at least one of which is.]..Iadd.with said additional gear .Iaddend.adjacent one end of said key means, said change .Iadd.and additional .Iaddend.gears having key-receiving means therein associated with said groove of said shaft, said key means having a pair of axially spaced-apart lug means normally projecting outwardly of said groove beyond an outer surface of said shaft when engaged with key-receiving means of said gears, .[.said lug means being spaced axially apart such that.]. said lug means .[.are.]. .Iadd.being .Iaddend.disengaged from all of said key-receiving means of said change gears and said additional gear when said key means is in a neutral position wherein all of said gears are drivingly disconnected from said shaft, .Iadd.one of .Iaddend.said lug means .Iadd.being .Iaddend.adjacent said change gears .Iadd.and .Iaddend.having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive change gears as said key means is axially shifted .Iadd.in one direction .Iaddend.from said neutral position toward said change gears, .Iadd.the other of .Iaddend.said lug means .Iadd.being .Iaddend.adjacent said additional gear .Iadd.and .Iaddend.having an interengagement with said key-receiving means of said additional gear when said key means is axially shifted .Iadd.in the opposite direction .Iaddend.from said neutral position toward said additional gear, and shift means .Iadd.including a rotary shift shaft journaled in said housing side walls and extending thereacross, a shift for on said shift shaft and rotatable therewith, a collar slideably mounted on said first-named shaft connected to said key means intermediate said lug means .Iaddend.for axially shifting said key means into said neutral and gear-engaging positions, whereby the selected gear with which said key means is interengaged .[.in.]. .Iadd.is .Iaddend.drivingly coupled via said key means to said shaft .Iadd.said shift fork engaging
said collar for axially shifting the same.Iaddend.. 22. In a transmission, the combination comprising .Iadd.a housing enclosing .Iaddend.a shaft, a plurality of .Iadd.speed-changing .Iaddend.gears, means for driving said gears, shift means including a shift member movable between successive gear-engaging positions for operatively connecting said gears one at a time to said shaft, said shift member having neutral positions separating adjacent gear-engaging positions wherein said gears are drivingly disconnected from said shaft.Iadd., said shift means further including a rotary shift shaft, a collar slideably mounted on said first-named shaft and connected to said shift member, a shift fork on said shift shaft and rotatable therewith, said shift fork engaging said collar, .Iaddend.and detent means for correlating the neutral positions of said shift member to certain positions of said shift means comprising a .Iadd.rotary .Iaddend.plate .Iadd.on said shift shaft operatively connected to said shift member and movable therewith.Iaddend., means forming a plurality of seats in said plate, a switch having a switch actuator biased twoard said plate and movable between an actuated position and a nonactuated position .[.and means movable with said shift member for moving said switch actuator relative to said plate such that.]. .Iadd.in response to movement of said plate whereby .Iaddend.said actuator successively engages said seats, said actuator being operated to one of its positions when engaged with said seats and operated to its other position when disengaged from said seats, the arrangement of said seats of said plate being such that said actuator is operated to one of its positions by said plate when said shift member is in said neutral positions whereby switch operation is correlated to said neutral positions. .[.23. The combination of claim 22 wherein said plate is movable with said shift member..]. .[.24. The combination of claim 23 wherein said shift member is journaled for rotation about a fixed axis and wherein the plane of said plate is perpendicular to said shift member, said seats being angularly spaced
apart in said plate at a selected radial distance from said axis..]. 25. The combination of claim .[.24 further including additional detent means.]. .Iadd.22 wherein said plate has means forming an additional plurality of seats therein .Iaddend.for correlating additional positions of said shift means to the gear-engaging positions of said shift member. .[.26. The combination of claim 1 wherein the material of said gears comprises a sintered powdered metal consisting of iron pre alloy having substantially the following percentage composition by weight: Nickel (0.45 percent); Molybdenum (0.60 percent); Manganese (0.35 percent); Sulfur (0.010 percent); Phosphorus (0.010 percent); Iron (Balance); Carbon (0.5/0.6 percent) and having a minimum density of 6.7 grams/c.c..]. .[.27. The combination of claim 1 wherein said gears comprise a sintered ferrous powdered metal material..]. .[.28. In a transmission, the combination comprising a shift, journal means for supporting said shaft for rotation about its axis, a collar slidably received on a first portion of said shaft, said shaft having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially of said shaft, a plurality of change gears journaled on said shaft and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having means thereon operable to successively interengage said key-receiving means of said gears when said key is axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, a pair of axially spaced-apart retainer lugs on said key projecting outwardly of said groove beyond an outer surface of said shaft, said collar encircling said key and being axially trapped between said pair of retainer lugs to render said key axially slidable in unison with said collar, said shaft having a circumferentially extending face extending inwardly radially of said shaft from said outer surface thereof and terminating in an axially open end at said face to thereby permit slip-on assembly of said key and said collar to said shaft by endwise insertion of the subassembly of said key in said collar with said collar trapped between said pair of retainer lugs when said collar is concentrically aligned with said shaft and said key is angularly aligned with said open end of said groove to permit said subassembly to be moved generally axially onto said shaft such that said collar in assembly is received on said first portion of said shaft, and shift means for axially shifting said collar on said shaft to thereby
shift said key to said gear-engaging positions..]. .[.29. The combination of claim 28 wherein said shaft has second and third portions having uninterrupted cylindrical surfaces, and said journal means likewise has uninterrupted first and second cylindrical bores respectively receiving said second and third portions with a close running fit, said transmission being enclosed in a closed housing with said journal means being mounted with a seal fit in outer walls of said housing and said shaft protruding from said housing via at least one of said journal means..]. .[.30. The combination of claim 29 wherein said means on said key operable to successively engage said key-receiving means of said gears comprises a third lug having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of said gears when said key is axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions..]. .[.31. The combination of claim 30 wherein said third lug comprises axially spaced-apart end surfaces and side surfaces extending axially between said end surfaces, said side surfaces being connected in part to said end surfaces by outwardly-extending beveled edges..]. .[.32. The combination of claim 29 wherein said face is defined by a shoulder at a junction of said first portion with one of said second and third portions, said cylindrical surface of said one portion having a radius equal to or less than the radial distance between the axis of said shaft and a bottom surface of said groove..]. .[.33. In a transmission, the combination comprising a housing defining a completely enclosed gear chamber within said housing and having first and second spaced walls defining opposite sides of said housing, a shaft having axially spaced journal portions having uninterrupted cylindrical surfaces, first and second sealing means in said first and second side walls respectively having uninterrupted cylindrical bores respectively receiving said first and second journal portions with a close running fit for journaling said shaft in said housing side walls, said shaft having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially thereof and terminating interiorly of said housing between said journal portions, a plurality of change gears journaled on said shaft within said housing chamber and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive gears when axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, and shift means within said chamber for axially shifting said key between said gear-engaging positions..]. .[.34. The combination of claim 33 wherein said shaft has a key-receiving portion within said housing having a diameter larger than at least one of said journal portions, said groove extending axially in said key-receiving portion and said shaft having a root surface defining the base of said groove spaced radially outwardly from the axis of said shaft at least flush with the cylindrical surface of at least one of said journal portions..]. .[.35. The combination of claim 34 wherein said housing comprises a case and a cover separable from one another and having mutually mating surfaces defining edges of said side walls abutted in the closed condition of said housing, said sealing means being disposed in said edges such that the axis of said shaft is
substantially coincident with said surfaces..]. 36. .[.The combination of claim 1 wherein.]. .Iadd.In a transmission including a housing, a shaft journaled in said housing, said shaft having first and second portions extending axially of said shaft, said first portion being cylindrical and diametrically enlarged transversely of the axis of said shaft relative to said second portion, said shaft having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially in said diametrically enlarged first portion and terminating interiorly of said housing, a plurality of speed-changing gears freely journaled on said first portion of said shaft within said housing and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive gears when axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, at least one end of said groove terminating in an axially open end adjacent said second portion to permit said key to be inserted lengthwise into said groove through said axially open end thereof, and shift means for axially shifting said key between said gear-engaging positions, each of .Iaddend.of said change gears .[.has.]. .Iadd.having .Iaddend.an axial bore therethrough by which it is journaled on said shaft.[.,.]..Iadd.: .Iaddend.said key-receiving means of at least one of said change gears .[.comprises.]. .Iadd.comprising .Iaddend.at least one recess therein extending radially outward of said bore and opening into said bore, said recess having a pair of generally axially extending abutments therein in generally opposed arcuately spaced relation to each other with one of said abutments terminating in said recess radially outward of said bore .Iadd.and the other of said abutments forming one end wall of said recess, said abutments defining a key-receiving slot therebetween.Iaddend., said key comprises a lug movable both axially of said shaft to successive gear-engaging positions to underlie each of said gears having said recess therein and generally radially outward of the portion of said shaft on which said change gears are journaled into .[.recess.]. .Iadd. slot .Iaddend.between the abutments of an associated change gear overlying said lug to drivingly couple via said key said change gears one at a time with said shaft for rotation therewith the transverse width of the portion of said lug receivable .Iadd.in said slot .Iaddend.between said abutments being dimensioned in relation to the generally arcuate spacing between said abutments such that when said lug is received .[.between the abutments of a recess.]. .Iadd.in said slot .Iaddend.of an associated change gear there can be substantially no relative rotation between an associated change gear and said shaft, .[.and .]. .Iadd.said .Iaddend.at least one .[.of said recesses.]. .Iadd.recess .Iaddend.at its associated bore having a generally arcuate length encompassing said abutments and extending beyond said one abutment .Iadd.to the other end wall of said recess .Iaddend.by a distance at least substantially one quarter of the transverse width of the portion of said lug .Iadd.thereby defining a step extending axially between said one abutment and said other end wall, said step having a surface disposed radially outwardly of said bore.Iaddend., whereby both backlash between the change gear coupled with said shaft for rotation therewith and said shaft is eliminated and said lug can be readily fully received between the abutments of a change gear when coupling a rotating change gear with said shaft for rotation therewith. .[.37. The combination of claim 1 wherein said key comprises a lug which when received in said groove continuously projects radially outwardly of said groove beyond the outer surface of the portion of the shaft on which said change gears are journaled, said key-receiving means of said gears comprising passages extending axially through said change gears open at the axially opposite ends thereof to receive said lug so that said lug is shiftable axially in said passages when said key is axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions..]. .[.38. The combination of claim 1 wherein said key comprises a resilient metallic arm with a lug adjacent one end thereof, said key being slidably received in said groove for generally axial movement therein with said arm yieldably urging said lug radially outwardly of the portion of said shaft
on which said change gears are journaled..]. 39. The combination of claim 21 wherein said key means also comprises a resilient metallic arm integral with and interposed between said axially spaced apart lug means with said lug means adjacent said change gears being carried by said inherently resilient arm adjacent the free end thereof and being yieldably urged by said arm radially outwardly of the portion of said shaft on which said
change gears are journaled. 40. .[.The combination of claim 28 wherein.]. .Iadd.In a transmission including a housing having opposite end and side walls, a shaft, journal means in said housing and walls for supporting said shaft for rotation about its axis, a collar slidably received on a first portion of said shaft in said housing, said shaft having a groove in the outer surface thereof extending axially of said shaft, a plurality of speed-changing gears journaled on said shaft in said housing and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having means thereon operable to successively interengage said key-receiving means of said gears when said key is axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, a pair of axially spaced-apart retainer lugs on said key projecting outwardly of said groove beyond an outer surface of said shaft, said collar encircling said key and being axially trapped between said pair of retainer lugs to render said key axially slidable in unison with said collar, said shaft having a circumferentially extending face extending inwardly radially of said shaft from said outer surface thereof and terminating in an axially open end at said face to thereby permit slip-on assembly of said key and said collar to said shaft by endwise insertion of the subassembly of said key in said collar with said collar trapped between said pair of retainer lugs when said collar is concentrically aligned with said shaft and said key is angularly aligned with said open end of said groove to permit said subassembly to be moved generally axially onto said shaft that said collar in assembly is received on said first portion of said shaft, and shift means including a rotary shift shaft journaled in said housing side walls and extending thereacross and a shift fork on said shift shaft rotatable therewith and engaging said collar .Iaddend.for axially shifting said collar on said shaft to thereby shift said key to said gear-engaging positions: said key also .[.comprises.]. .Iadd.comprising .Iaddend.a resilient metallic arm integrally connected with said pair of axially spaced apart lugs adjacent one end of said arm.Iadd., .Iaddend.and said means operable to successively interengage said key-receiving means .[.comprises.]. .Iadd.comprising .Iaddend.a third lug carried by said arm adjacent the other end thereof and integral therewith, said arm yieldably urging said third lug radially outwardly of the portion of said shaft on which said change gears are journaled.Iadd., the resilience of said arm being the
sole force urging said third lug outwardly.Iaddend.. 41. The combination of claim 36 wherein said key also comprises a resilient metallic arm, said lug being integral with said arm and adjacent one end thereof, said key being slidably received in said .[.grooves.]. .Iadd.groove .Iaddend.for generally axial movement therein with said arm yieldably urging said lug radially outwardly of the portion of said shaft on which said change gears are journaled. .[.42. The combination of claim 36 wherein each of said change gears comprises sintered powdered iron having a minimum density of
6.7 grams per cubic centimeter..]. 43. The combination of claim 36 wherein each said recess in each of said gears extends generally axially throughout each of said gears and which also comprises a washer carried by each of said change gears adjacent one face thereof and having an inner peripheral portion forming an end wall in each of said recesses to thereby close each said recess at the end thereof adjacent said one face. .[.44. The combination of claim 43 wherein each of said change gears comprises sintered powdered iron having a minimum density of 6.7 grams per cubic centimeter and has a counterbore therein opening into one face thereof with said counterbore therein opening into one face thereof with said counterbore being formed therein prior to sintering of the powdered iron thereof, and said washer of each of said change gears is fixedly received
in said counterbore thereof..]. 45. In a transmission, the combination comprising a housing, a shaft journaled in said housing, a plurality of separate .[.change.]. .Iadd.speed-changing .Iaddend.gears each having an axial bore therethrough journaled on a portion of said shaft for free rotation relative thereto, at least one of said gears having a recess therein extending radially outward of said bore.Iadd., said recess having opposite end walls .Iaddend.and opening into said bore and a pair of generally axially extending .[.in at least one of said recesses in generally opposed arcuately spaced relation to each other with one of said abutments terminating in said recess radially outward of said bore .Iadd.and the other abutment being at one of said end walls, said abutments defining a key-receiving slot therebetween.Iaddend., and key means having a lug carried by said shaft for rotation therewith, said lug being movable both generally axially of said shaft to selectively underlie each of the gears having an associated pair of abutments and generally radially outwardly of said shaft portion into a registered .[.recess.]. .Iadd.slot .Iaddend.between abutments thereof to couple said change gears having an associated pair of abutments one at a time with said shaft for rotation therewith, said lug having a transverse width slightly less than the spacing between said abutments of each .[.recess.]. .Iadd.slot .Iaddend.to thereby minimize relative rotation between said shaft and the selected change gear when said lug is received .Iadd.in said slot .Iaddend.between said abutments thereof, and each of said recesses with an associated pair of abutments having at its associated bore a generally arcuate length .Iadd.between opposite end walls .Iaddend.encompassing said abutments and extending beyond said one abutment .Iadd.to the other end wall of said recess .Iaddend.by a distance at least substantially one quarter of the transverse width of said lug .Iadd.thereby defining a step extending arcuately between said one abutment and said other end wall, said step having a surface disposed radially outwardly of said bore .Iaddend.whereby both back-lash between said shaft and the change gear coupled with said shaft for rotation therewith is eliminated and said lug can be readily fully received between the abutments of a change gear when coupling a rotating change gear with the shaft for rotation therewith.
.[. 6. The combination of claim 45 wherein each of said recesses has a step therein adjacent said one abutment, said step having a surface disposed radially outwardly of said bore extending generally arcuately from said one abutment to the circumferential end of said recess remote
from the other of said abutments..]. 47. The combinatioon of claim 45 wherein circumferential length of each recess at its associated bore is at least and one half times the circumferential spacing between said
abutments. 48. The combination of claim 45 wherein the circumferential length of said recess at its associated bore is in the range of one and one quarter to twice the circumferential spacing beteeen said abutments.
. The combination of claim 45 including means forming a groove in the outer surface of said shaft extending axially thereof and wherein said key means comprises a key having a resilient arm with said lug being integral with said arm adjacent a free end thereof, said key being slidably received in said groove for generally axial movement therein with said arm yieldably urging said lug to a position wherein said lug protrudes radially outwardly of said shaft portion and said lug is spaced from the
bottom of said groove. 50. The combination of claim 49 wherein each of said recesses extends generally axially throughout its associated change gear and which also comprises a washer carried by each of said change gears adjacent one face thereof and having an inner peripheral portion closing the end of said recess adjacent said one face, whereby said washers cooperate with said lug to shift said lug generally radially inwardly against the bias of said resilient arm to disengage said lug from a recess of a change gear when said lug is moved axially past said washer
whereby the change gear is decoupled from said shaft. 51. The combination of claim 50 wherein .[.each of.]. said lug has two generally opposed ramps on edge faces of said lug with said ramps being inclined with respect to each other and converging radially outwardly of said lug, said ramps being adapted to bear on said washers to disengage said lug from said recess in
said change gears when said lug is moved axially past said washers. 52. The combination of claim 51 wherein said key comprises a shank connected to the end of said arm remote from its free end, said shank having a flat bottom surface laying flat on the bottom surface of said groove, said arm extending at a gradual angle from shank away from the bottom surface of said groove so as to function as a cantilever spring arm. .[.53. The combination of claim 52 wherein said change gears comprise sintered powdered iron and said washers comprise sheet metal stampings..].
4. The combination of claim .[.53.]. .Iadd.52 .Iaddend.wherein each of said change gears has a counterbore therein opening into one face thereof .[.with said counterbore being formed therein when compacting the powdered iron thereof.]., and the associated washer is located in said counterbore. .[.55. The combination of claim 54 wherein each of said washers is made of case hardened high carbon steel..]. .[.56. The combination of claim 55 wherein said washers are fixed to said change gears by the sintering of
the powdered iron thereof..]. 57. The combination of claim .[.51.]. .Iadd.52 .Iaddend.wherein said key comprises a one-piece member with said lug and said arm being homogeneously integral, said arm being a continuatioon of said shank and being bent with permanent deformation to incline said arm to slope generally radially outwardly as it extends from
said shank to said free end of said arm. 58. The combination of claim 57 wherein the bend in said arm is axially spaced from said shank to thereby
increase the fatigue resistance of said one-piece key. 59. The combination of claim 58 wherein said bend is spaced from said shank at least
substantially one-fourth of an inch. 60. The combination of claim 58 wherein said shank has second and third spaced lugs protruding therefrom beyond the outer surface of said shaft, and wherein a collar encircles said shaft and is trapped between said second and third lugs to provide
means for shifting said key axially of said shaft. 61. The combination of claim 21 wherein said shaft has first and second portions extending axially of said shaft, said first portion being cylindrical and diametrically enlarged transversely of the axis of said shaft relative to said second portion, and said groove extends axially in aid diametrically enlarged first portion with at least one end of said groove terminating in an axially open end adjacent said second portion to permit said key means to be inserted lengthwise into said groove through said axially open end thereof. .[.62. The combination of claim 33 wherein said shaft has first and second portions extending axially of said shaft, said first portion being cylindrical and diametrically enlarged transversely of the axis of said shaft relative to said second portion, and said groove extends axially in said diametrically enlarged first portion with at least one end of said groove terminating in an axially open end adjacent said second portion to permit said key to be inserted lengthwise into said groove
through said axially open end thereof..]. .[.63. The combination of claim 1 wherein said housing defines a completely enclosed gear chamber within said housing and has first and second spaced walls defining opposite sides of said housing and said shaft has axially spaced journal portions having uninterrupted cylindrical surfaces, and the combination further comprises first and second sealing means in said first and second side walls respectively having uninterrupted cylindrical bores respectively receiving said first and second journal portions with a close running fit for journaling said shaft in said housing side walls, said groove extending axially of said shaft terminates interiorly of said housing between said journal portions..]. .[.64. The combination of claim 21 wherein said housing defines a completely enclosed gear chamber within said housing and has first and second spaced walls defining opposite sides of said housing, and said shaft has axially spaced journal portions having uninterrupted cylindrical surfaces, and the combination further comprises first and second sealing means in said first and second side walls respectively having uninterrupted cylindrical bores respectively receiving said first and second journal portions with a close running fit for journaling said shaft in said housing side walls, said groove extending axially of said shaft terminates interiorly of said housing between said journal portions..]. .[.65. The combination of claim 61 wherein said housing defines a completely enclosed gear chamber within said housing and has first and second spaced walls defining opposite sides of said housing and said shaft has axially spaced journal portions having uninterrupted cylindrical surfaces, and the combination further comprises first and second sealing means in said first and second side walls respectively having uninterrupted cylindrical bores respectively receiving said first and second journal portions with a close running fit for journaling said shaft in said housing side walls, said groove extending axially of said shaft terminates interiorly of said housing between said journal
portions..]. .Iadd.66. In a transmission including a housing having opposite end walls and side walls, a shaft having first and second portions extending axially of said shaft, said first portion being intermediate said second portions and being cylindrical and diametrically enlarged transversely of the axis of said shaft relative to said second portions, said second portions of said shaft being respectively journaled in said housing end walls, said shaft having a groove in the outer surfaces thereof extending axially in said diametrically enlarged first portion and terminating interiorly of said housing, a plurality of speed-changing gears freely journaled on said first portion of said shaft within said housing and having key-receiving means, a key within said groove axially slidable between successive gear-engaging positions and having successive interengagements with said key-receiving means of successive gears when axially shifted to successive gear-engaging positions whereby the selected gear with which said key is interengaged is drivingly coupled via said key to said shaft, at least one end of said groove terminating in an axially open end adjacent said second portion to permit said key to be inserted lengthwise into said groove through said axially open end thereof, and shift means a shift fork on said shift shaft and rotatable therewith, a collar slideably mounted on said shaft portion and connected to said key for axially shifting said key between said gear-engaging positions, said shift fork engaging said collar for axially shifting the same; said key comprising a resilient metallic arm with a lug adjacent one end thereof, said lug having two generally opposed ramps on edge faces thereof with said ramps being inclined with respect to each other and converging radially outwardly of said lug, said key comprising a shank connected to the end of said arm remote from the lug end, said shank having a bottom surface lying flat on the surface of said groove, said arm extending at a gradual angle from the shank away from the bottom surface of said groove so as to function as a cantilever spring arm with the lug near a free end thereof, said key being slidably received in said groove for generally axial movement therein with said arm yieldably urging said lug radially outwardly of the portion of said shaft on which said change gears are journaled, the resilience of said arm being the sole force urging said lug outwardly each of said key-receiving means comprises a recess extending generally axially throughout its associated change gear, a washer associated with each of said change gears adjacent one face thereof and having an inner peripheral portion closing the end of said recess adjacent said one face, whereby said washers cooperate with said lug to shift said lug generally radially inwardly against the bias of said resilient arm to disengage said lug from a recess of a change gear when said lug is moved axially past said washer whereby the change gear is decoupled from said shaft, said lug ramps being adapted to bear on waid washers to disengage said lug from said recess in said change gears when said lug is moved axially past said washers. .Iaddend. .Iadd.67. The combination of claim 66 wherein said key comprises a one-piece member with said lug and said arm being homogeneously integral, said arm being a continuation of said shank and being bent with permanent deformation to incline said arm to slope generally radially outwardly as it extends from
said shank to said free end of said arm. .Iaddend. .Iadd.68. The combination of claim 67 wherein the bend in said arm is axially spaced from said shank to thereby increase the fatigue resistance of said one-piece key. .Iaddend. .Iadd.69. The combination of claim 66 wherein each of said change gears has a counterbore therein opening into one face thereof, and the associated washer is located in said counterbore. .Iaddend.