Claims (10)
Hide Dependent 
We claim:
1. In an automatic transmission for a motor vehicle, having an accelerator pedal, said transmission having a mechanical planetary gear train with hydraulically actuatable gear shift elements, a gear select lever having a plurality of selectable forward drive positions, including automatic forward drive (D), a source of first pressurized hydraulic fluid, a manual control valve, responsive to the position of said select lever, for supplying said first fluid to a selected gear shift element when said lever is in one of said forward drive positions, and a fluid line communicating between said manual control valve and said selected element for delivering said first fluid from said manual control valve to said selected element, a control system for selectively interrupting the supply of said first fluid to said selected element, comprising a main control valve arranged in said fluid line between said manual control valve and said selected element for controlling the supply of said first fluid from said manual control valve to said selected element, said main control valve being responsive to the position of said accelerator pedal and controlling the supply of said first fluid to said element to discontinue said first fluid supply and exhaust the fluid from said element to disengage said element in selected vehicle operating conditions, said conditions including when said vehicle is stationary, said gear select lever is in automatic drive (D), and said accelerator pedal is released.
2. A control system according to claim 1, wherein said main control valve means comprise piston means, spring means acting on said piston means, means for providing an accelerator pedal position-dependent second fluid pressure for acting on said piston means in opposition to said spring means, for moving said piston means to a first position when the spring force on said piston means exceeds the accelerator pedal position-dependent second fluid pressure force for connecting said gear shift element with a fluid outlet and a second position when said accelerator pedal position-dependent second fluid pressure force exceeds the spring force for connecting said gear shift element with said manual control valve for providing said first fluid under pressure to said gear shift element.
3. A control system according to claim 2, wherein said piston means has a first piston surface acted on by said spring means and a second piston surface acted on by said accelerator pedal position-dependent second fluid pressure, and wherein said means for providing said accelerator pedal position-dependent second fluid pressure includes a source of engine load-dependent pressure.
4. A control system according to claim 3, further comprising purging control valve means for venting the second fluid pressure supplied to said second piston surface when said accelerator pedal is released, and wherein said source of engine load-dependent pressure includes throttle .[.mmeans.]. .Iadd.means .Iaddend.therein.
5. A control system according to claim 4, wherein said purging control valve means comprise a control piston displaceable in a longitudinal bore of a piston valve, wherein said accelerator pedal engages said control piston when at least partially depressed, said control piston having a control edge for opening a connection to a pressure medium outlet when said accelerator pedal is released and for interrupting said connection when said accelerator pedal is partially depressed.
6. A control system according to claim 4 or 5, wherein said vehicle includes a kick-down control valve, and wherein said purging control valve means are contained in said kick-down control valve.
7. A control system according to claim 1, wherein said forward drive positions include lever positions associated with a specific load operation, wherein said control system further includes means for delivering main fluid pressure to a piston surface on said piston means for acting in opposition to said spring means when said gear select lever is moved to one of said specific load operations.
8. A control system according to claim 7, comprising three-way valve means for supplying second fluid pressure to said second piston surface for selectively connecting said piston with a source of said main fluid pressure when said gear select lever is moved to a position corresponding to specific load operation.
9. A control system according to claim 1, further comprising means for controlling said main control valve as a function of vehicle speed.
10. A control system according to claim 9, wherein said piston means further comprises a third piston surface and, wherein said speed control means comprises means for delivering a speed dependent third fluid pressure for acting on said third piston surface for opposing the force of said spring.