Claims (16)
Hide Dependent 
I claim: .[.
1. Apparatus comprising:
two movable control elements movable between respective neutral and operating positions,
two latching mechanisms, each responsive to movement of a respective control element from its neutral to its operating position, for engaging said respective control element for latching the respective element in its operating position, said latching mechanisms being of dissimilar configuration,
interlocking means for releasing the latching mechanism associated with one element responsive to movement of the other element to its respective operating position, and
means, responsive to movement of both elements from their neutral to their operating positions, for disabling the latching mechanisms from latching the respective elements, thereby permitting said elements to return to their neutral positions..]. .[.
2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising means for moving an article in a given direction,
means for enabling said means for moving responsive to movement of one of said control elements to its operating position, and
means for inhibiting said means for moving responsive to movement of both of said control elements to their respective operating positions..].
3. An apparatus .[.as claimed in claim 2,.]. .Iadd.comprising:
two movable control elements movable between respective neutral and operating positions,
two latching mechanism, each responsive to movement of a respective control element from its neutral to its operating position, for engaging said respective control element for latching the respective element in its operating position, said latching mechanisms being of dissimilar configuration,
interlocking means for releasing the latching mechanism associated with one element responsive to movement of the other element to its respective operating position, and
means, responsive to movement of both elements from their neutral to their operating positions for disabling the latching mechanisms from latching the respective elements, thereby permitting said elements to return to their neutral positions, .Iaddend.characterized in that:
said control elements are push-button bars, movable against a biasing force in a push-in direction from their respective neutral positions,
said latching mechanisms include a common spring-loaded blocking member arranged to be movable in response to movement of at least either of said control elements from its neutral position to its operating position, and a respective latch element associated with and moving together with each control element, and
said blocking member is moved a first distance .Iadd.in a first direction .Iaddend.transversely to said push-in direction.Iadd., and is then moved in a second direction opposite said first direction, .Iaddend.in response to depression of one only of said control elements to its operating position, and is moved a second distance different from said first distance transversely to said push-in direction in response to depression of at least the other of said control elements to its operating position.
4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, in which said blocking member has, for each latch element, a respective blocking edge extending transversely to said push-in direction, and a respective first sliding edge extending at an inclined angle to the push-in direction, characterized in that:
said blocking member has a respective second inclined sliding edge between each blocking edge and the respective first inclined sliding edge, arranged such that upon depression of both control elements, and simultaneous release of both control elements by a user, engagement of one latch .Iadd.element .Iaddend.with the respective second sliding edge unlocks the latching .[.arrangement.]. .Iadd.mechanism .Iaddend.of the other control element.
5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that, during sliding movement of a latch .Iadd.element .Iaddend.along at least one of its associated inclined sliding edges, said blocking member moves transversely to said push-in direction a distance greater than a length of the blocking edge, transversely to said push-in direction, of the other latching .[.arrangement.]. .Iadd.mechanism.Iaddend..
6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that said first and second sliding edges of each respective .[.latching arrangement.]. .Iadd.blocking member .Iaddend.enclose an obtuse angle with one another.
7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that each of said .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch elements .Iaddend.is designed such that movement of the respective push-button bar is approximately a same distance up to the unlocking of another push-button bar engaged beforehand.
8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that said blocking member is a displaceable slide having a respective recess formed therein in which the respective .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch elements .Iaddend.are movable,
characterized in that said slide is displaced in both directions transversely to said push-in direction during movement of one of said push-button bars from its neutral to its operating position.
9. An apparatus .[.as claimed in claim 7,.]. .Iadd.comprising: .Iaddend.
two movable control elements movable between respective neutral and operating positions,
two latching mechanisms, each responsive to movement of a respective control element from its neutral to its operating position, for engaging said respective control element for latching the respective element in its operating position, said latching mechanisms being of dissimilar configuration,
interlocking means for releasing the latching mechanisms associated with one element responsive to movement of the other element to its respective operating position, and
means, responsive to movement of both elements from their neutral to their operating positions, for disabling the latching mechanisms from latching the respective elements, thereby permitting said elements to return to their neutral positions, characterized in that
.Iadd.said control elements are bars, movable against a biasing force in a first direction from their respective neutral positions,
said latching mechanisms include a common spring-loaded blocking member arranged to be movable in response to movement of at least either of said control elements from its neutral position to its operating position, and a respective latch element associated with and moving together with each control element,
said blocking member is moved a first distance transversely to said first direction in response to movement of one only of said control elements to its operating position, and is moved a second distance different from said first distance transversely to said first direction in response to movement of at least the other of said control elements to its operating position, and, .Iaddend.
said blocking member is a pivotable catch interacting with the .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch elements .Iaddend.of said push-button bars, and said apparatus includes means for applying a spring force tending to pivot said catch in a given direction at least while one of said control elements is moved from its neutral position, engagement of said catch by said .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch elements .Iaddend.pivoting the catch against said spring force.
10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that said .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch elements .Iaddend.extend tangentially to the catch pivot axis, latches of two different latching .[.arrangements.]. .Iadd.mechanisms .Iaddend.extending differing distances in the tangential direction.
11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10, characterized in that said blocking member is a plastic injection molding, said means for applying comprising a flexible plastic arm formed as part of said blocking member and arranged for engagement by inclined edges formed on said push-button bars. .[.12. Apparatus comprising:
two movable control elements movable in a same given direction between respective neutral and operating positions,
two latching mechanisms, each responsive to movement of a respective control element from its neutral to its operating position, for engaging said respective control element for latching the respective element in its operating position, said latching mechanisms being of dissimilar configuration,
interlocking means for releasing the latching mechanism associated with one element responsive to movement of the other element to its respective operating position, and
means, responsive to movement of both elements from their neutral to their operating positions, for disabling the latching mechanisms from latching the respective elements, thereby permitting said elements to return to
their neutral positions..]. 13. An apparatus .[.as claimed in claim 12.]. .Iadd.comprising:
two movable control elements movable in a same given direction between respective neutral and operating positions,
two latching mechanisms, each responsive to movement of a respective control element from its neutral to its operating position, for engaging said respective control element for latching the respective element in its operating position, said latching mechanisms being of dissimilar configuration,
interlocking means for releasing the latching mechanism associated with one element responsive to movement of the other element to its respective operating position, and
means, responsive to movement of both elements from their neutral to their operating positions, for disabling the latching mechanisms from latching the respective elements, thereby permitting said elements to return to their neutral positions, .Iaddend.characterized in that
said latching mechanisms include a common spring-loaded blocking member arranged to be movable in response to movement of at least either of said control elements from its neutral position to its operating position, and a respective latch element associated with and moving together with each control element, and
said blocking member is moved a first distance .Iadd.in a first direction .Iaddend.transversely to said given direction.Iadd., and is then moved in a second direction opposite said first direction, .Iaddend.in response to depression of one only .Iadd.of said control elements for unlatching the latch element of the other of said control elements; .Iaddend.and is moved a second distance different from said first distance transversely to said given direction in response to depression of at least the other of said
control elements to its operating position. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, in which said blocking member has, for each latch element, a respective blocking edge extending transversely to said given direction, and a respective first sliding edge extending at an inclined angle to the given direction, characterized in that:
said blocking member has a respective second inclined sliding edge between each blocking edge and the respective first inclined sliding edge, arranged such that upon depression of both control elements, and simultaneous release of both control elements by a user, engagement of one latch .Iadd.element .Iaddend.with the respective second sliding edge unlocks the latching .[.arrangement.]. .Iadd.mechanism .Iaddend.of the
other control element. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14, characterized in that said blocking member is a pivotable catch interacting with the latches of said push-button bars, and said apparatus includes means for applying a spring force tending to pivot said catch in a given direction at least while one of said control elements is moved from its neutral position, engagement of said catch by said .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch mechanism .Iaddend.pivoting the catch against said spring
force. 16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, characterized in that said .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch elements .Iaddend.extend tangentially to the catch pivot axis, .[.latches.]. .Iadd.latch elements .Iaddend.of two different latching arrangements extending differing distances in the
tangential direction. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 16, characterized in that said blocking member is a plastic injection molding, said means for applying comprising a flexible plastic arm formed as part of said blocking member and arranged for engagement by inclined edges formed on said push-button bars. .[.18. Magnetic tape apparatus having at least two push-buttons which, when their push-button bars are pressed in separately, exercise individual functions on apparatus parts, with it being possible for each of the push-button bars, loaded in tension by means of springs in the direction of their initial neutral positions, to be arrested in the pressed-in position, and with it being possible for a spring-loaded blocking member which can be moved by all push-button bars and which interacts with latches on the push-button bars to be adjusted in such a way that, when a push-button bar is pressed in, a push-button bar arrested beforehand is released for withdrawal, the individual latches of at least two push-button bars with blocking member parts allocated to the individual latches, having latching arrangements of different design, characterized in that the push-button bars (33, 34; 133, 134) having a different latching arrangement, when they are alternately pushed in, are released by the blocking member (20, 120) for withdrawal, and that the blocking member (20, 120), when these push-button bars (33, 34; 133, 134) are pushed in together, likewise releases these two push-button bars for withdrawal..]. .[.19. Magnetic tape apparatus according to claim 18, with the blocking member for each latch having a blocking edge running across the push-in direction, and a first sliding edge running at an inclined angle to the push-in direction, characterized in that a second inclined sliding edge (47; 147a; 147b) is provided between the blocking edge (45; 145a, 145b) and the first inclined sliding edge, with the first inclined sliding edge (47; 147a; 147b), when a push-button bar (33; 133; 34; 134) is pushed in, and the second inclined sliding edge (46; 146a; 146b), during withdrawal, unlocking at least one other push-button bar (34; 134; 33; 133)..]. .[.20. Magnetic tape apparatus according to claim 19, characterized in that the length (e.g) of the deflection movement of the blocking member (20, 120), during the longitudinal sliding movement of a latch (52; 152a, 152b) of a latching arrangement along one of the associated inclined sliding edges (46, 146a and b; 47, 147a and b), is always greater than the length (d; f) of the blocking edge (45, 145a and b) across the push-button bar sliding direction of the other latching arrangement..].