Claims (6)
Hide Dependent 
We claim:
1. A motor vehicle gearbox, comprising first and second concentrically mounted input shafts, said input shafts arranged to be driven alternately such that one said input shaft comprises a temporarily non-driven input shaft, an output shaft, and first and second countershafts driven by said first and second input shafts, respectively, said countershafts .Iadd.having spaced parallel axes and .Iaddend.having gear wheels in engagement with gear wheels on said output shaft, .Iadd.a gear wheel on each countershaft being in driving engagement with a common gear wheel on said output shaft, .Iaddend.at least one of the gear wheels on each countershaft being rotatably mounted thereon and being lockable by means of engaging means to said countershaft, and each input shaft being in driving engagement with a corresponding countershaft, said first and second countershafts being coordinated with synchronizing means shiftable independently of said engaging means, by means of which synchronizing means each countershaft, which is drivingly coupled to said respective temporarily non-driven input shaft, can be accelerated up to a rotational speed determined by a gear speed selected.
2. The motor vehicle gearbox of claim 1, wherein said synchronizing means is arranged to adapt the rotational speed of one of said countershaft to approximately that of the gear wheel to be engaged.
3. The motor vehicle gearbox of claim 2, wherein said synchronizing means comprises a pair of gear wheels rotatably mounted on one of said countershafts, and friction means by which one of said gear wheels can be drivingly connected to said one countershaft, said gear wheels being in driving engagement with gear rings on said corresponding input shaft.
4. The motor vehicle gearbox of claim 3, wherein said gear wheels serving as synchronizing means include opposing frictional surfaces and an intermediate friction plate axially displaceable but non-rotatably joined to said one countershaft and connected to shifting control means.
5. The motor vehicle gearbox of claim 1, wherein said output shaft includes gear wheels which engage with gear wheels of equal dimension on said first and second countershafts.
6. The motor vehicle gearbox of claim 1, wherein said output shaft lies in a plane spaced from a plane of the said first and second countershafts, and said countershafts including a pair of gear wheels drivingly connected to each other, of which gear wheels at least one is freely rotatably mounted on said second countershaft and is lockable by means of engaging means to said second countershaft to reverse the rotational direction of said output shaft.