Claims (16)
Hide Dependent 
.[.In the claims.]. .Iadd.We claim.Iaddend.:
1. A split flywheel apparatus for reducing the transmission of vibrations resulting from a transfer of torque from an engine to a transmission line comprising:
a divided flywheel having first and second flywheel elements, said first element having means for be drivingly connected to the engine and said second element having means for .[.be.]. .Iadd.being .Iaddend.drivingly connected to said transmission line,
connecting means for drivingly connecting said two flywheel elements together, said connecting means including:
resilient means positioned between said flywheel elements and frictionally connected to said first flywheel element through a first frictional clutch means positioned between said flywheel elements and having frictional contact greater than the maximum transfer torque under normal operating conditions operative only when said normal transfer torque is exceeded, for limiting the torque which can be transmitted under conditions of said maximum torque and,
wherein said resilient means fictionally connected to said first flywheel element is arranged on an intermediate member annular means, said intermediate member means being frictionally connected to said first flywheel element through said first frictional clutch means and .[.notable.]. .Iadd.rotatable .Iaddend.with respect to the second flywheel element.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said resilient means includes at least two spring group means connected to one another via said intermediate member means and with a second frictional clutch means being arranged inbetween said intermediate member means and one of said flywheel elements, and wherein said second frictional clutch means is arranged in parallel to at least one of said spring group means.
3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said second frictional clutch means is arranged in parallel to only one of said spring group means.
4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said second frictional clutch means comprises more than one frictional clutch wherein each frictional clutch is affected by different clearances.
5. An apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising disk means for connecting said spring group means to said flywheel elements, said disk means having window means for receiving said spring group means in a position tangential to the axis about which said flywheel elements rotate.
6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said disk means comprises a first and second annular disk arrangement, each annular disk arrangement for accomodating one of said two spring group means.
7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said spring group means comprises helical springs arranged in a position tangential to the axis about which said flywheel elements rotate, said spring group means being positioned against windows or recesses of said intermediate member means.
8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein one of said spring group means is positioned against windows or recesses of said second annular disk arrangement, said second disk arrangement being non-rotatably connected to said second flywheel element and the other of said spring group means is positioned against windows or recesses of said first annular disk arrangement, said first disk arrangement being frictionally connected to said first flywheel element.
9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said spring group means are arranged concentrically to one another at a different radial distance from the axis about which said flywheel elements rotate.
10. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said flywheel elements are directly connected via a friction clutch having a low frictional contact operative between the two flywheel elements when low torques are transmitted.
11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said frictional clutch means is comprised of more than one frictional clutch and wherein each frictional clutch is affected by different clearances.
12. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said one of said fly-wheel elements is said second fly-wheel element. .Iadd.
13. Apparatus for compensating for fluctuations of torque between the output member of an internal combustion engine and the input member of a change-speed transmission in a motor vehicle, comprising a plurality of coaxial flywheels including a first flywheel arranged to receive torque from the output member of the engine and a second flywheel arranged to transmit torque to the input member of the transmission, said flywheels being rotatable relative to each other; and a plurality of dampers disposed in series and operative to oppose rotation of said first and second flywheels relative to each other, said dampers including first and second slip clutches and an elastic damper, one of said slip clutches having means for transmitting torque to said elastic damper and said elastic damper having means for transmitting torque to the other of said slip clutches. .Iaddend. .Iadd.
14. Apparatus for compensating for fluctuations of torque between the output member of an internal combustion engine and the input member of a change-speed transmission in a motor vehicle, comprising a plurality of coaxial flywheels including a first flywheel arranged to receive torque from the output member of the engine and a second flywheel arranged to transmit torque to the input member of the transmission, said flywheels being rotatable relative to each other; and a plurality of dampers disposed in series and operative to oppose rotation of said first and second flywheels relative to each other, said dampers including first and second slip clutches and an elastic damper, one of said slip clutches being operative to oppose all angular movements of said first and second flywheels relative to each other and including an input element having two confronting friction surfaces arranged to rotate with one of said flywheels and an output element disposed between and in frictional engagement with said surfaces, said elastic damper having an input element receiving torque from said output element, an output element arranged to transmit torque to the other of said slip clutches, and at least one energy storing resilient element between the input and output elements of said elastic damper. .Iaddend. .Iadd.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the input element of said elastic damper is rigid with the output element of said one slip clutch..Iaddend. .Iadd.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said other slip clutch has an input element which is rigid with the output element of said elastic damper and an output element which is arranged to rotate with the other of said flywheels. .Iaddend. .Iadd.17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the output element of said one slip clutch comprises two friction linings which engage said friction surfaces. .Iaddend.