Claims (15)
Hide Dependent 
We claim: .[.1. A control system for controlling pressurized fluid operated shift actuators (30) for mechanical transmissions, said actuators including a first (88) and a second (86) pressurizable chamber, pressurization of said first chamber effective to urge said actuator into a first position for causing engagement of a selected ratio of said transmission and pressurization of said second chamber effective to urge said actuator into a second position for causing disengagement of said selected ratio, and shift control means for selectively pressurizing and venting selected ones of said first and second chambers by selectively connecting same to a controlled source (236) of pressurized fluid and to an exhaust (54), said system characterized by:
pressure level..]. 2. The control system of claim .[.1.]. .Iadd.15 .Iaddend.wherein said first pressure level is at least twice as great as
said second pressure level. 3. The control system of claim .[.1.]. .Iadd.15 .Iaddend.wherein said first pressure level is at least four times as great as said second pressure level. .[.4. The control system of claims 1, 2, or 3 wherein said first chamber is pressurized to said first pressure level to cause engagement of said selected ratio and said second chamber is pressurized to said second pressure level to cause
disengagement of said selected ratio..]. 5. The control system of claim .[.1, 2 or 3.]. .Iadd.15 .Iaddend.wherein said first chamber is maintained pressurized to retain said first ratio engaged, said first chamber pressurized to said first pressure level at initiation of engagement of said selected ratio and, after a predetermined time, maintained pressurized at said second pressure level, said second chamber pressurized to said second pressure level. .[.6. The control system of claim 1, 2 or 3
wherein said pressurized fluid is a gas..]. 7. The control system of claim
.[.4.]. .Iadd.15 .Iaddend.wherein said pressurized fluid is a gas. 8. The control system of claim 5 wherein said pressurized fluid is a gas. .[.9. A control method for controlling pressurized fluid operated shift actuators (30) for mechanical transmissions, said actuators including a first (88) and a second (86) pressurizable chamber, pressurization of said first chamber effective to urge said actuator into a first position for causing engagement of a selected ratio of said transmission and pressurization of said second chamber effective to urge said actuator into a second position for causing disengagement of said selected ratio, shift control means for selectively pressurizing and venting selected ones of said first and second chambers by selectively connecting same to a controlled source (236) of pressurized fluid and to an exhaust (54), said method characterized by:
causing said controlled source to be pressurized to a selected one of a
first pressure level or a second relatively lesser pressure level..]. 10. The control method of claim .[.9.]. .Iadd.16 .Iaddend.wherein said first pressure level is at least twice as great as said second pressure
level. 11. The control system of claim .[.9.]. .Iadd.16 .Iaddend.wherein said first pressure level is at least four times as great as said second
pressure level. 12. The control system of claims .[.9, 10 or 11.]. .Iadd.16 .Iaddend.wherein said first chamber is maintained pressurized to retain said first ratio engaged, said controlled source is pressurized to said first pressure level at initiation of engagement of said selected ratio and, after a predetermined time, said controlled source is maintained at said second pressure level, said controlled source is pressurized to said second pressure level when said selected ratio is to
be disengaged. 13. The control method of claims .[.9.]. .Iadd.16 .Iaddend.10 .[.and.]. .Iadd.or .Iaddend.11 wherein said pressurized fluid
is a gas. 14. The control method of claim 12 wherein said pressurized
fluid is a gas. .Iadd.15. A control system for controlling pressurized fluid operated shift actuators (30) for mechanical transmissions, said actuators including a piston (76) having a first (102) and an opposed second (104) piston face associated with a first (88) and a second (86) pressurizable chamber, respectively, said piston faces of substantially equal area, pressurization of said first chamber effective to urge said actuator into a first position for causing engagement of a selected ratio of said transmission and pressurization of said second chamber effective to urge said actuator into a second position for causing disengagement of said selected ratio, and shift control means for selectively pressurizing and venting selected ones of said first and second chambers by selectively connecting same to a controlled source (236) of pressurized fluid and to an exhaust (54), said system characterized by:
means (220) for causing said controlled source to be pressurized to a selected one of a first pressure level or a second relatively lesser pressure level, said first chamber pressurized to said first pressure level to cause engagement of said selected ratio and said second chamber pressurized to said second pressure level to cause disengagement of said selected ratio. .Iaddend. .Iadd.16. A control method for controlling pressurized fluid operated shift actuators (30) for mechanical transmissions, said actuators including a piston (76) having a first (102) and an opposed second (104) piston face associated with a first (88) and a second (86) pressurizable chambers respectively, said piston faces of substantially equal area, pressurization of said first chamber effective to urge said actuator into a first position for causing engagement of a selected ratio of said transmission and pressurization of said second chamber effective to urge said actuator into a second position for causing disengagement of said selected ratio, shift control means for selectively pressurizing and venting selected ones of said first and second chambers by selectively connecting same to a controlled source (236) of pressurized fluid and to an exhausts (54), said method characterized by:
causing said controlled source to be pressurized to a selected one of a first pressure level or a second relatively lesser pressure level, said first chamber pressurized to said first pressure level to cause engagement of said selected ratio and said second chamber pressurized to said second pressure level to cause disengagement of said selected ratio. .Iaddend. .Iadd.17. A control system for controlling shift actuators (30) for mechanical transmissions, said actuators including a mechanism effective to selectively urge said actuators into a first position for causing engagement of a selected ratio of said transmission and to urge said actuator into a second position for causing disengagement of said selected ratio, and shift control means characterized by:
means for causing said mechanism to exert a selected one of at least a first force level or a second lesser force level, said means causing said mechanism to exert said first force level to cause engagement of said selects ratio and said means causing said mechanism to exert said second force level to cause disengagement of said selected ratio. .Iaddend.
.Iadd.8. The control system of claim 17 wherein said first force level is
at least twice as great as said second force level. .Iaddend. .Iadd.19. The control system of claim 17 wherein said actuator is maintained under force to retain said first ratio engaged, said actuator exerting said first force level at initiation of engagement of said selected ratio and, after a predetermined time, maintained at exerting said second force said actuator exerting only said force level for causing disengagement of said selected ratio. .Iaddend. .Iadd.20. A control method for controlling shift actuators (30) for mechanical transmissions, said actuators including a mechanism effective to selectively urge said actuator into a first position for causing engagement of a selected ratio of said transmission and to urge said actuator into a second position for causing disengagement of said selected ratio, said method characterized by:
causing said mechanism to exert a selected one of at least a first force level or a second relatively lesser force level, including causing said mechanism to exert said first force level at initiation of engagement of said selected ratio and to exert said second force level when said
selected ratio is to be disengaged. .Iaddend. .Iadd.21. The control method of claim 20 wherein said first force level is at least twice as
great as said second force level. .Iaddend. .Iadd.22. The control method of claim 20 wherein said actuator is maintained under force to retain said first ratio engaged, said actuator exerting said first force level at initiation of engagement of said selected ratio and, after a predetermined time, maintained at exerting said second force said actuator exerting only said force level for causing disengagement of said selected ratio. .Iaddend.